# [Random Number Generation](https://www.cse.wustl.edu/~jain/cse567-17/k_26rng.htm)
* Note: don't write your own generator. someone else has done it better than you ever could.
* Random number = Uniform(0, 1)
* Random variate = Other distributions
* A random generator is a function that generates a sequence of number from some function.
* For example: x\_n = 5*x\_(n-1) + 1 mod 16.
* Terminology
	- Seed: x\_0
	- Pseudo-random: deterministic yet would pass randomness tests
	- Fully random: not repeatable
	- Cycle length: the length of the repeatable sequence
	- Tail: the part non included in the repeatable sequence
	- Period: cycle length + tail
* Properties of a good generator
	- Efficient to compute the sequence
	- The period should be large
	- Sucessive values should be independent and uniformly distributed
* Types of generators
	- Linear congruential generators
	- Tausworthe generators (will only talk about this)
	- Extended fibonacci generators
	- Combined generators
* Linear congruential generators
	- The residues of sucessive powers of a number have good randomness properties.
	- x\_n = ax\_(n-1) mod m
	- Generalization: x\_n = ax\_(n-1) + b mod m (called mixed rather than linear)
* Selection of paramters
	- a, b and m affect the period and autocorrelaction
	- m should be large
	- The period can never be larger than m
	- m should be chosen such that its efficient for computation, hence a power of 2.
	- If b is non-zero we can obtain the maximum period of m if and only if: 
		1. integers m and b are relatively prime
		2. every prime that is a factor of m is also a factor of a-1 
		3. if integer m is a multiple of 4, a-1 should be a multiple of 4
		4. m = 2^k, a = 4c + 1 and b is odd. Here k, a and c are positive integers.
* Remove b, we get a multiplicative LCG.
	- Two options: m = 2^k or m is not 2^k.
* Multi-stream simulations
* Seed selection
	- Do not use zero
	- Avoid even numbers
	- Do not subdivide one stream
	- Do not generate sucessive seeds
	- Use non-overlapping streams
	- Reuse seeds in a sucessive replications
	- Do not use random seeds.
	- Select large numbers.
* Myths about RNG
	- A complex set of operations leads to random results
	- A single test, such as the chi-square test, is sufficient to test the goodness of a rng
	- Random numbers are unpredictable.
	- Some seeds are better than others.
	- Accurate implementation is not important
	- Bits of sucessive words generated by a random-number generator are equally randomly distributed.
